= 1.Introduction =

Purposeful Communities is an crowd sourcing application whose goal is to create an collaborative on line environment that will enable people to publish and fulfillt heir needs and act together to solve a problem . As the name implies, system is based on communities consisting of a group of users who have a common aim to provide as animal rights, anti-pollution, and charity.Some applications such as Twitter and Facebook are being used similarly but they are not able to solve coordination problem (for example, old “need” keeps getting re-tweeted even after that need is met). Purposeful Communities will also solve this problem by enabling coordination among users and building dependencies between tasks and tracking the completion statuses of tasks.

== Definitions ==
  * *Community:* The place where group of people having a common purpose communicates and creates and completes tasks .
  * *Task:*  Publications of a need created by a community member and demanded from members of the community and information about how need should be provided.
  * *Need type:* A need can be a service or a good. Goods are  countable needs specified with a quantity (Ex: 50 tents needed for an help after an earthquake ). Services are generally actions such as cleaning of a place or treatment of wounded people.

= 2.Functional requirements =

 == 2.1 Communities ==

2.1.1.Communities shall be created by registered users providing a name and description which states its purpose

2.1.2. Communities shall support membership. Users shall be able to join a community

2.1.3. Creator of a community shall become automatically community admin who have the rights  specified in 2.3.9.

2.1.4.Community members shall be able to create community tasks.

2.1.5.Communities members list shall be available to other community members.

2.1.6.Community tasks with  progress statuses and remaining day information  shall be listed in main community interface and tracked by community members.

2.1.7.Community tasks shall be sortable by two criteria: latest(determined by task creation date), and urgent (determined by task deadline)

2.1.8. Community members shall  be able to contribute to  community tasks.

2.1.9.Communities members shall be notified when a new community task is created.

 == 2.2 Tasks ==

2.2.1.Tasks shall be created by community members .

2.2.2.Following information should be provided by user to create a task.

  2.2.2.1.task name which states task's identity.

  2.2.2.2.task description which describes task more detailed and provides necessary information to possible task contributers.

  2.2.2.3.deadline: latest day of for task to be done. After deadline tasks shall be closed.

  2.2.2.4.need: main need which characterize the task.

  2.2.2.5.need type: a need can be a service or good as explained in definitions.

2.2.3. Users who creates tasks shall be able to add a form to tasks to be filled by members replying the task in order to persist structured data.

  2.2.3.1 Forms shall consists of form fields which consists of a field label and a field type

  2.2.3.2 Single text line, text area, photo, multiple choice, single choice and optional set field types shall be provided

2.2.4.Tasks shall be done by users providing task need and completing task form 
 
2.2.5.Completion status(Percentage of needs satisfied) of the task shall automatically be tracked by the system.

2.2.6. Tasks shall be monitored with their name, description, completion status, follower number, and remaning day information.

2.2.7.Tasks(task description and name) shall be updatable by task owners.

 == 2.3 Users ==
Users There should be 4 different user types: general admin, user, guest and community  admin

2.3.1.Guests shall be able to browse the system but not create content and participate 

2.3.2.Guests should provide name, surname, email, password,  job information to become registered users.

2.3.3.After step 2 users shall be asked for nonrequired information fields : date of birth, gender, address, interest areas, skills, telephone number, education and a brief info about user.

2.3.4.Personal information (unless they want to hide), communities and tasks of an user shall be presented publicly to the other users.

2.3.5.Users shall have a reputation score  calculated based on the tasks he helped.

2.3.6.Users shall login system providing email and password.

2.3.7.Users shall be provided with the facilities to edit their profiles.

2.3.8. General admins shall have, in addition to normal users' abilities,  
authorities  to  ban users, and remove all types of content

2.3.9.Community admins shall be provided with additional authority to edit 
community profile information,ban members, remove  tasks unrelated to community purpose, and appoint other members of community as admin

 == 2.5 Tagging ==

2.5.1.Tasks and  communities shall be tagged by the ones who create them.

2.5.2.Semantic tagging shall be supported (tags shall be stored and processed with their semantics)

2.5.3.Users shall be encouraged  to use semantic tags using a semantic tag interface . 

2.5.4.Number of tags for a task or community shall be restricted 


 ==2.6 Searching == 

2.6.1. Community and task search  with a basic keyword shall be supported

2.6.2. There should be a advanced search for tasks which is based on

  2.6.2.1. Task deadline

  2.6.2.2. location

  2.6.2.3. task need

  2.6.2.4. completion status


==2.7 Follow / Share ==

2.7.1 Community members shall be able to follow community tasks. Followers shall get   notifications when a progress occurs in a task.

2.7.2 Users shall  be able to share tasks via facebook or twitter. 

==2.8 Recommendation system ==

2.8.1. Communities similar to another community shall be recommended.

2.8.2. Communities which are related to users profile information such as job  skill and locations shall be recommended

2.8.3.Tasks shall be recommended to users using users profile information  and task help history. 


==2.9 Messaging and Communications ==

2.9.1.Users shall have (mail) message box and message through here

2.9.2.Community mail list shall be automatically stored

2.9.3.Task creator shall be able to message all community members via their message box or community mail list.

2.9.4.Community members who want to contribute to a task shall be able to send a message to task owner from task reply page.

2.9.5.Discussion about a task shall be provided via simple commenting system which appear below a page of a task.

== 2.10. Reputation System ==

2.10.1. Users shall earn points by helping a task fulfilled.

2.10.2. Each completed task shall bring points to the task owners



 = 2.Non-Functional Requirements =

 == 2.1 Operating & Platform constraints ==
2.1.1 The application should be supported by Google Chrome (All version), Safari (4.1.3 or higher), Internet Explorer (7 or higher) and Mozilla Firefox (12 or higher).

 == 2.2 Modifiability ==
2.2.1 The system should be designed in a modular manner so that the developers can modify it to respond the varying needs of users.

 == 2.3 Portability ==
2.3.1 A mobile application to interact with users shall be supported with less features relative to the web application.
2.3.2 Mobile application shall be implemented for Android devices.

 == 2.4 Security ==
2.4.1 The application shall be accessed via a user authentification process. (i.e. sign in). The contents shall be public. Only members shall manipulate the contents.
2.4.2. Registration shall be validated.

 == 2.5 Usability ==
2.5.1 The user interface of the application should be similar to popular task management applications (e.g. PivotalTracker) at the launch stage to achieve ease of use.
2.5.2 There shall be more visual design to focus than the content.

 == 2.6 Language ==
2.6.1 The language of the application shall be in English.

 == 2.7 Response Time ==
2.7.1 Response time of the web pages and database queries should be less than five seconds with an average quality Internet connection.

 == 2.8 Reliability ==
2.8.1 All the records and database shall be copied for possible failures and the copied data should be updated periodically (daily).

 == 2.9 System Availability ==
 2.9.2 The user interface of the system shall be available during day and the maintenance shall be performed at nights when necessary.

 == 2.10 Physical Requirements ==
2.10.1 System shall be written using an IDE in Windows, OS X or Linux operating systems.

 == 2.11 Design ==
2.11.1 Design of home page should be simple and user friendly.

2.11.2 Color choices should be done consciously.

2.11.3 Homepage shall consist the recent urgent tasks.

 == 2.12 + Search engine Optimization==
 
2.12.1 + When a new task is created the URL should be formed according to
header of the task which is important for search engine indexing.