#summary Task Together System Test Plan
#labels TestDocument,TestPlan

= Task Together System Test Plan =

This test plan consists of testing strategy(unit testing, system testing, user acceptance testing), test case document for testers, test automation tools used in the project, resources/roles and responsibilities for testing. All system functionalities must be tested and they must be working well before the final deployment. Also, sub-tasks must be tested and working before milestone-deployments.

== Testing Strategy ==

=== Unit Testing ===

In this project, unit testing will be done individually. Project members will be testing the methods that they are responsible of. As soon as a method is implemented, related unit testing for that method have to be written and run.

Therefore, every project member is responsible of writing and running unit tests.

 * Serdar Kuzucu
 * H. Anıl Özmen
 * Serkan Özer
 * Mehmet Alparslan Bal 
 * Muhammed Sabri Şahin
 * Berhan Şenyazar
 * Şeyma Erdem

=== System Testing ===

System testing is testing a complete system to verify its specified requirements . After our system is complete, system testing will be done based on the requirements document. System testers will test all functional requirements of the system from user point of view and will not concern  about internal source code.


Testers who will be responsible for system testing are :
Muhammed Sabri Şahin
Berhan Şenyazar
Şeyma Erdem

== Test Case Document for Testers ==

[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Au-ZeA-5ENDidGtKbFg1SXdUR21kU0lFbm02TEZQUUE&usp=sharing Google Doc Link]

== Tools ==

=== JUnit ===

JUnit is a simple framework to write repeatable tests. It is an instance of the xUnit architecture for unit testing frameworks.

[http://junit.org/ HomePage]

=== Google Code Issue System ===

Bug tracking tool for opening issues, reporting bugs, tracking them.

[https://code.google.com/p/cmpesweng2013group10/issues/list Issues]

== Resources/Roles & Responsibilities ==

Will be written until November 14th.